Hey all, it's Brian. If you've been
building Angular apps for a while, like
I have, you know, the framework keeps
evolving fast.
Today, I'm going to show you how to
modernize an older app step by step
using the latest Angular features,
modern host bindings and events, control
flow, and signal inputs, so your code
stays lean, futureproof, and ready for
production. By the end of this video,
your code will be smaller, a little
faster, and overall more modern, and
you'll see exactly how to quickly
modernize several aspects of an existing
application.
A couple years back, I built this little
Angular demo showing how to use the host
binding decorator to bind an animation
to a component host. Back then it worked
great, but Angular has come a long way
and now we have some much cleaner, more
powerful ways to write this code.
Let's look at the code that's making
this happen. The app component is where
this list of players lives currently.
First off, this list is using the old
ng4 structural directive.
This isn't the way we want to do this
anymore. Instead, we want to use a four
block.
This is part of Angular's modern
built-in control flow syntax. It's a
little cleaner. No more asterisk, no
structural directive needed. This runs
right inside Angular's new block syntax.
And instead of track by, we now use
track. And in this case, the player
name. Same idea, just nicer to read.
Because of that change, we no longer
need the track by method over in the
component type script. We can just
delete it. The for loop takes care of
tracking for us.
Let's switch back to the template. Now,
there were a couple more things that we
can improve. We've got two buttons here
that use ng if, one for removing a
player and one for adding.
We can modernize these too using if
instead of the structural directive
again no more asterisk, no structural
directive. This is the new syntax
Angular recommends moving forward. And
once you start using it, you won't want
to go back. Okay, this is cool, but what
does it have to do with hostbinding
animations? Nothing, right? There aren't
even any animations in this template.
Well, this is because we're using
hostbinding in the player component for
this animation. So, let's take a look.
This is where the animations live.
If you look here, we've got a host
binding to run the animation and then
two host listeners, one for when the
animation starts and one for when it's
done. But here's the thing. These
decorators are still supported, but
they're not the recommended way to bind
things on the component host anymore.
Now, we want to do this with the host
property of the component. We'll switch
this over in a minute, but first, let's
look at the animation itself.
Here, we can see that we're using an
external animation. Let's look at this
real quick to better understand how it
works. It's just a simple enter and
leave animation. The enter alias allows
us to animate an element when it is
added to the DOM. And the leave alias
does the opposite. It animates items as
they leave the DOM. Okay, now that we
know how this works, let's switch over
to the host property. First, we add a
new host property inside the component
decorator like this.
That's it.
Now the animation is bound to the
component host.
And since we're doing it this way now,
we don't need this host binding anymore.
Now we can move the start event to the
host property too. We use parenthesis
for this just as we would for events in
the template.
Then we just need to call our start
method.
Now we can remove the host listener for
this.
And now we can do the same for the done
event.
We'll move it to the host. Call the done
method. Then remove the host listener.
We can also remove the import since it's
not needed anymore.
Now before we finish, there's one more
modern pattern you'll definitely want to
use here. Signal inputs.
Right now, this uses the classic input
decorator, but modern Angular gives us a
newer way using signal inputs, which
makes the component more reactive. So,
we just need to switch this over to the
new input function.
Then, we can remove the old decorator
import.
Now, we're not done yet. Over in the
template, we need to update it to use
this signal input.
What I'm actually going to do is create
a template variable here with the let
syntax and I'm going to name it player
var.
Then I'll set this to the signal input.
Then I just need to update all instances
of the old player property. Using a
template variable like this means we can
reference player var directly without
having to write player with parenthesis
every time. But since it's now a local
variable, I do have to change the name.
So pick your poison.
All right, I think we've got everything.
Let's save it and take a look in the
browser.
There we go. Add a player. Nice entrance
animation.
Remove a player.
smooth exit animation
and everything works exactly as it
should. But now the code is more modern
and ready for anything Angular throws at
us in future updates.
So that's it. A quick refactor of an
older app using Angular modern syntax,
new control flow, signal inputs, and
cleaner host bindings. If you're
building apps in Angular today, these
patterns will help you write clearer,
more reactive code, and they'll keep
your apps easy to maintain long term. If
you enjoyed this video, hit that like
button. And if you want more short
focused Angular tutorials like this one,
go ahead and subscribe. I've got plenty
more coming. Until next time, thanks for
watching.
[Music]